In this asynchronous JavaScript category, we are discussing one more asynchronous iterator end generator
concept.
The symbolic dot async iterator is the class which is used in this case.
There are three related questions to this topic.
We have already seen it writers and we also tried to iterate through object literal using symbol dot
iterator.
It means we use default off loop.
The idea behind async iterator is about iterating through the data which is coming asynchronously or
in chunks on demand instead of getting it together.
It means you can use the four of eight of loop instead of four of loop.
We have seen this example in the IT writers section where the object literally is converted into an
iterable object.
Let me first of all run the code.
So we have this is equal to ten and B is equal to 20, and we are looping through from A to B, and
for that we are using the far off loop.
Now the same code we can convert to async iterator and in that case we will be able to use for a rate
of instead of four off.
So let's say that we are adding an asynchronous process.
So inside this next what I can do, I can use an old statement here which will actually generate a new
promise.
And inside of this I will configure the promise with, let's say, some set timeout.
That is, we are configuring a kind of asynchronous process which is going to take some time, let's
say I'll say result after 1000 milliseconds now because I have added a promise here and a set timeout
as well.
That means it is going to take some time and then this data will be processed, which is the core concept
of asynchronous processes.
Now, because I have used it here, that means, as you already know, that we need to have an async
wrapper.
So the next thing I am going to write is async.
Next.
So now this process will actually increment the value, but after every second and in that case, we
cannot use the form of the way we are using it right now.
The next thing is this symbol.
That iterator instead of iterator will have to use the async iterator.
So here I'm going to say.
Async iterator.
Now, the next thing is that we have this loop.
This loop will not work because this gets executed immediately and the counters are returned after every
second.
So in that case, we are going to use the form of aid.
The moment you say, Ah, wait, as you know that we need to have an asynchronous wrapper, either I
can create a function or I can use an iffy.
So I'll go with iffy here.
So that if you will go something like this and here I'll say async.
I'll put an arrow function, but which will be having no name.
And I will cut this far loop inside the asynchronous block.
And also I'll just align the parentheses.
So let's run the code and see what is the output.
Now, as you can see that after every second the value is getting incremented.
The object later, which is not a treble, we made it a treble and also we used this import async iterator
to implement that.
And of course with this we have used the for a white loop to loop through the async that is asynchronous
iterator instead of this syntax with async next you can use simple next method and return a promise
from it.
This is also a valid way of making an asynchronous iterator in the generator function section.
We tried to use asterisk and symbol, not iterator.
That is, by making the function generator it was easier to execute the iterator when it comes to async
iterator with generator function, you can do that as well.
This was the code with generator function to iterate through the object.
Literal software converting the code.
It will be something like this.
The function will be having asynchronous process, right?
Because we are going to use our aid inside of that.
Now, when we have this yield before that, again, I'm going to write the.
Wait.
Then the new promise will have the result.
Let's set timeout and we'll call the result, which is a static matter after 1000 milliseconds.
Right.
And this iterator will be async iterator.
The next thing is we'll have the iffy.
Async.
And this will have its own call.
I'll write to parenthesis.
And this far look will be shifted inside this Effie with the await statement.
Let's run the code now.
I'll say no.
And the file name.
So here again, it takes 1/2 and then it incrementally value the object.
Little right now has stardust ten and as 15.
So we have the data between ten and 15.
So ideally, whenever you have a process of data where it's taking time, the asynchronous process you
have and your object literally is converted into a treble object, then the generator function and it
returns together.
Make more sense.
Let's discuss the related questions of this topic.
The first question is what is similar async iterator.
So similar async iterator is a way to implement iterator with asynchronous process.
So here in this example, we have already seen that the object, which is not iterable, is converted
into an iterable object.
But the problem is that the data is retrieved in some interval.
That's where this symbol dot async iterator comes very handy.
The second question is can we use the spread operator with async iterator?
For example, like this?
Well, it is not possible.
The reason is the spread operator is going to return, adding the adda is return when the values are
retrieved, whereas in asynchronous process the data is retrieved in chunks, small chunks, and then
it gathers.
So using the spread operator the way we used to do it with the generator and iterate together, that
is not possible with the async iterator.
The third question is how will you handle the async iterator using generator function syntax?
Well, this one is very easier.
This is the core.
We use the async.
So when you say this asterisk and this symbol dot async iterator, you just have to use some promise
to return and we have the yield which will return a value after this interval.
So here is the syntax of implementing the generator function with asynchronous iterator.